It’s such a great Sahaj Yogi, that he must have
really blasted you all, with so many expositions,
which normally, we resist, very much.
So, I have to say one thing, that,
this work is, of Mother’s Love,
and Mother can never demand anything from you,
least of all the reverence,
that is, due to a mother,
only thing she can do, is
to love you, care for you,
to guide you, to proper understanding.
Sometimes suppose she has to take the
cane in the hand, for a very short time,
but this overpowering love
cannot demand anything from you.
Actually, sometimes I wonder, why should
they at all think of giving anything to Me,
because they do not know I’m so helpless,
that I really cannot take anything, at all,
it re bounce back, and, it is a very
different phenomena with Me which have faced,
sometimes with people when I tell them,
that Love can only be returned in one way,
that is only by assimilating it within yourself.
Just by sucking it into your being,
just by fulfilling yourself with it,
to be, absolutely satisfied,
to be transformed into a new
being of joy and happiness.
To be the Lotus of your being, to be
the fragrant personality of this earth.
If that happens to a Mother, is the biggest thing,
She may be the most powerful or
whatever you may call her by,
her only joy is in seeing what
she has, to be given completely,
fully to the children Sampurna.
Because anything that she tries
to retain, doesn’t make her happy,
so everything has to be imparted, given to you.
But sometimes as, Yogi has said
that people are not hungry,
till a mother can’t bear her children starving,
so she too create also the hunger, in her heart,
in the heart of her children.
A mood has to be set in, and thus
today we had a very nice program,
describing the different deities,
awakening them within ourselves,
setting you for your transformation.
I am very much thankful to
Shrimati Urmila Devi Vardhan for
giving such a beautiful
exposition of bharatanatyam,
and also to all her accompanying artist.
They have been very kind
to us. Thank you very much.
Now, today as I told you, I have
to talk to you about the Shaktis,
the powers that already exist
within us, and manifest within us,
and when we start misusing them, how we
fall a prey, to some sort of maladjustment
and as a result, we become
sick or, we become, imbalanced,
full of tension, temper, and all sorts of
abnormal behaviours come into our being.
This subject is to be understood
better, if you had the book you can,
you must have done some homework I am sure today,
that within us lies, the power of Shiva,
the power of our atma in our heart.
And this power of atma, is the witness,
which watches, the, clay of the power,
of the Holy Ghost.
The atma is the reflection of
the God Almighty, and His power,
is this all pervading power of
God, which is the Adi Kundalini,
which is manifested within us as Kundalini.
This, Kundalini, resides in the triangular bone.
Reflection of God Almighty, Paramatma the
atma, watches the play, of the power, of Love,
Love of God, power of Adi Shakti, his
own power of Love which is immeasurable.
Which is Anand, which is, in destructive,
which does everything in this world,
which is called as Brahma Shakti.
That’s the truth, the rest of it
is not, but still we are sleeping,
still we are not aware of that
power, that is all pervading,
we have heard about it, in all the scriptures
that there is the all pervading power.
Yesterday, I told you that this
Power is doing all the living work.
Despite all this, we cannot feel
that Power, and we do not know,
whether we should believe in this
great power that is surrounding us,
whether such a power really exists or not.
The reason is we are still, as a
human being, we are in a transition.
We are not yet become that for which we were made.
I would say that this instrument which is here
being made is not put to the mains, is of no use.
Unless and until it is put to
the mains it doesn’t work out.
Whatever it works out so caused
supposing somebody pushes it down and out
maybe also speaking on this or doing anything
is not being the real think is just false,
it’s just artificial.
So whatever we have been so far, without, the
connection with the, all pervading, connection,
with the God Almighty, is
all absolutely artificial.
It’s just mental thing that we are
doing, so this yoga must be established.
Yoga means the union with God
Almighty for all understand,
but it just doesn’t mean that you
take a plug and put to God Almighty,
it doesn’t mean that way, but
it means that within ourselves,
the whole instrument is made
and built-in in such a way,
that only a Guru or an enlightened soul, knows
how to connect this instrument with God Almighty,
so that you become an instrument of God’s love.
Now this happening is called as Yoga,
but Yoga also has another meaning,
“Yoga Kaushalyum Yukti”, that the
word yukti comes from that Yoga,
means, with deafness how
to handle this instrument.
It’s not sufficient for
anyone to get an instrument.
Supposing you are given a car,
and the machinery is opened up,
still if you don’t know how to drive the car.
You cannot drive it, it is useless for you.
And if try to do anything, you may spoil the car.
Before starting the car,
if you start turning the parts like the
tyres or something like that or the wheels
the car won’t move.
In the same way, without having the Yoga if
you try to do anything in the name of God,
you are doing it artificially.
So the yukti, the Kaushalyum to handle
this instrument, is also to be learnt.
So first part, this is the Yoga, is the
sprouting of the Kundalini, the awakening of it,
and breaking of the Sahasrara, I should say is
the job of a Sahaj Yogi or your Divine Mother,
but afterwards to learn, the yukti, the
Kaushalyum, the kushalta, the debtness,
how to develop this awareness,
into that stillness,
and this awareness into that higher awareness
which you call it vibratory awareness.
How to station it there is
the job of an awakened soul.
So we have two different functions to
do, first is to awaken the Kundalini.
That I know sometimes can be difficult, can be
easy depending on the sadhaka, on the seeker,
but the other part of it becomes much
easier for a person who is awakened,
if he has real bhakti for himself,
real understanding that he
is a person of some value.
He has come on this earth, not to just waste
his precious human life and fritter it away,
but for a very, very special purpose.
All such people will dedicate themselves
completely to master the art of Yoga.
Now many people ask a question that what is the
difference between Sahaja Yoga and other Yogas.
There is no difference at all, because
if you see the Yogas which are described,
say Hathya Yoga is.
Hathya Yoga was practiced in our country
when we had a very different of society.
The children from about five years to
about twenty five years at the most,
would go and live with their
Gurus who were all realised souls.
In those days we didn’t have such Gurus as we
are having these days, all kinds of funny things.
They were realised souls, absolutely detached,
of course married, living with their wives,
and looking after the children who
went there for their education,
and at that time this kind
of Hathya Yoga was practiced,
where people lead a complete Brahmachari’s life.
Today such a situation doesn’t exist at all,
so much so that the Gothra was
nothing but the University.
Say supposing my Gothra is Shandileya Gothra.
The university where the children studied
could not marry each other not in
one generation, ten generation,
but till today.
So the Gothra which are started that is
Brahmachari’s must be kept absolutely pure.
But modern times are such that even
if you want to know your Gothra
I think perhaps that very few people
really know what is their Gothra is.
So when this is the situation
of today’s society where the purity of
life is so much challenged every moment
where there is no sense of
Brahmachari among the children
to practice that kind of Hatha Yoga
is going to be rather difficult
where you have to spend all your life in a
school under a realised soul who is a Guru
these days you see the quality of
Gurus and the quality of students,
but in that also the first change
is that change is not only – making
yourself thin or making yourself
of making yourself like an actress
it was not only a viyama
systems it was a ashtangas
out of ashtallas the first and
foremost was Ishwara Pranithan
means first is the Realization
establishment of God within yourself,
and absolutely it is logical
and sensible to understand this
why Ishwara was to be established first because
unless and until Kundalini starts moving
you will not know what is your problem is.
For example with your naked eyes you can
see the Kundalini pulsating in many people
if you come to our regular
programs you will be surprised
it pulses just like the
heart in the triangular bone
when it goes upward you can
see its pulsation passing
if you put your stethoscope you can
see the pulsation moving up to the head
where on to the top of your head in the Fontanel
bone area you can feel the throbbing clearly
which Kabira has described as
shunyeshikarapara anahathabaji
and anahatha is that sound of the heart lub du,
lub du you can clearly hear on top of your head
and when it breaks that sound then you start
getting that cool breeze of the holy ghost
the Chaitanya Lahari coming out of your head.
Now this is what one has to
understand is the beginning of Yoga.
This is where the awakening has taken
place and Brahmarandra has been broken,
but still it is to be fully established.
This is the second part of
Yoga which is [coushallop ].
No in those days when Ishwara
Pranitana was so important
these days those people who are teaching
yoga don’t even talk of Ishwara.
They lead a horrible life there is no
question of Brahmachari and all that
and then what diseases such people can
develop, if I tell you you’ll be shocked.
Those people who do such asanas and
such things which are only physical
develop their physical being.
Such people can be very hot
tempered, extremely dry,
without any sense of innocence
and of purity and auspiciousness.
Such people can be extremely cruel
and can even beat their wives,
beat their children
and can be so dry that if a Sahaj Yogi tries
to raise the Kundalini of such a person
they might get blisters on their hands.
These people may end up with so many diseases
which may not be cured by the Viyamas they do.
These people become very right sided ego oriented
people and they think no end of themselves.
At the most if they go beyond the
limits they can become so cruel
that they can easily achieve
the personality of Hitler.
I would say Hitler is one of
the examples of the extremes
to which a man who is working out his right side
as we call it the physical side the
right side, the Pingala Nadi, can reach.
Hitler should really warn you all off such
a great attachment to your body development.
You are not only your body.
Many people who come to Me I have seen
come for sickness and want Me to cure them.
But one has to know that God has common sense,
He is the source of all the common senses.
Those people who want to get cured if they are not
the ones who are going to carry the light of God
then why should God cure them?
The light that we have in our house
which is just a lamp and cannot be
useful for producing light as such,
are we going to repair it?
If we cannot repair it, the
great economist who is God
is he going to do such a thing as to cure
a person who has nothing to do with God
who is not going to work out
anything who is a ball case.
Know at the very outset if you read Gita you
will find that Shri Krishna has clearly said,
“They are already dead people.”
He asked also Arjuna that you have to kill your
relations even people like Bhishma pitamaha
and his Guru also watch,
because they are already dead.
That means whatever is dead is always dead
and whatever is living is always living
as He Himself has said that nanium
chidantish shastrani nanium dhathipahavaka.
That spirit that atma within
you cannot be destroyed.
So such people if they have a body
which is absolutely incapacitated,
or they have a mind which does not
want to receive anything about God
then the Gods forces recede back
and such people may not be cured.
But a time has come where I feel God Himself in
His all graciousness and sweetness is so gracious,
He is so kind.
I have seen in Sahaj Yoga that
people who are supposed to be
just directly going to hell
are getting Realization.
It’s amazing! I am amazed at Sahaja Yoga!
That’s why I call it a Mahayoga.
People told Me about man, that he is the
one who has done all kind of bad things.
Even his wife has committed suicide.
He is a man who drinks and
who plays this and does that
and he has done all sorts of things and now
he is absolutely finished and fagged out
he has no money left and he came to Me
and of course with great
difficulty he got his Realization.
They didn’t tell Me beforehand
but the way he was difficult I
was wondering what sort of a person is this.
He had no diseases as such very
healthy person extremely ego oriented
but he got his Realization and when he got
his Realization he was a transformed man.
All his shedrupules had fallen down he was
a different man his face was different.
He was so beautiful and so much
stunningly changed that even his own wife
could not believe that it is the same gentleman
because he had one wife had committed suicide
he had another wife who was absolutely pestered
and was about to commit suicide and she
herself said that, “Look at this man,
how has he changed what has happened?”
So that it is proved that God has really
become extremely gracious, extremely kind
and that is why yesterday I asked you to say
again and again that, “Mother, I am not guilty”,
not to feel guilty really don’t feel guilty
at all because whatever you have done
whatever may be your mistake
against God whatever anti God
things you have done to others or to yourself,
forget it, it is time for you to get
Realization and all of you are going to get it.
Another Yogas are Raj Yoga
and other Yogas are there.
Now Raja Yoga is another thing which means
that you have to do kumbaka means holding up
and that you have to do
kaycherrie and all those things.
Actually it is brought out in such
a funny way that you’ll be amazed
that the way people follow it is something like
before starting the car you start moving the wheel
the, the, what you call – – – the steering
wheel and you start pulling the choke
in the same we follow Raga Yoga these days.
There was a gentleman who use
to cut the tongue in America
who use to cut the tongue of people and
used to push them back here mechanically
to call it a kaycherrie.
Kabira is his exposition has
clearly absolutely condemned it
and he said this kind of nonsense
is not going to take you to God.
Also like shaving your head or wearing a
kashiya vastra and all that kind of a show,
is not going to take you to Got, he said it that,
“If shaving your head is going to take you to God,
then what do you think about the sheep
that is shaved every year, twice.
It must go to God first.”
So all these nonsensical ideas
about Yoga are to be canceled
because Raga Yoga is the thing that actually
happens within us when the Kundalini rises,
it’s a tremendous happening, and there are so
many activities that come into going to play
that is impossible to describe
in one lecture what all happens,
but imagine an energy going up and all the
centres going into motion and commotion
fixing up the Kundalini in its
proper place supporting it,
they have to do so many things simultaneously as
we cannot describe even a simple
thing like digestion of food
which is so autonomous,
we cannot describe that happening which
is so subtle and so quick and so alert.
But by putting your tongue in your throat and
wagging it all your life you are
not going to go near God at all.
On the contrary God is going to be very angry
with you for being cruel to
yourself for nothing at all.
This concept comes from I don’t know from where
that you can do all the Yogas
without really being the Yoga.
The real Yoga is spontaneous is living process.
Is a process which is the Sahaja,
Saha means “with”, ja means “born”,
is born with you.
We never think how we digest our food do we?
We don’t know how we see things/ it’s the most
wonderful intricate camera that
God has build in our sockets.
Now do we ever understand that this complicated
body was created by some energy within us,
and that energy is still there which has to give
us this last jump into the new
awareness of self-Realization.
Why should we not think that whatever we
have got so far has been absolutely free.
You didn’t become human being by
paying anything to the monkeys did you?
How did you become human beings – spontaneously!
How did this evolution come up – spontaneously!
You did do anything about it, did you
stand on your head to become a human being?
Did you go to any school or to
any University to read about it?
All that is [white] for human beings
is absolutely free and has to be free.
Not only free from money but also from breathing
and all those things like breathing now.
Supposing if you have to breathe. First you
have to go to school and find out how to read,
how [many] will exist even for a second.
Reading has nothing to do with
God! Please remember this.
Reading books doesn’t take you to God at all,
only thing is that if you read something
you may reach a logical conclusion
like when you come here and
you see an advertisement
you see that there is a
program of Mataji Nirmala Devi.
If you think that by reading that advertisement
you have got your self Realization
then what should I call you.
In the same way if you just read books and think,
“Oh I have read Gita, I have read this and I
have read that and now I have become viyasa”,
you are sadly mistaken.
Even to understand Gita or to
understand Bible or to understand Koran
you have to have your self Realization otherwise
you can never understand these books also.
So you cannot do it by reading on the contrary
sometimes too much reading
can create a big problem
what Adi Shankaracharya has
called it as a sabdhachala.
The right sided man who works with his Ida nadi on
the right side on the right
sympathetic nervous system
is the one who works his physical side more
and his mental side he uses his kriya shakti.
Especially in Delhi the kriya shakti
is overworked, everybody is planning.
Planning what God only knows.
With all this planning if this is going to
be the situation it is better
that they stop the planning.
Planning for the future! Future
doesn’t exist, so why should you plan?
Now anybody would say, “Mother, supposing you have
to go day after tomorrow then
you must book your – ticket.”
Yes then go and book it! Why are you planning?
You will plan up to the point let the car come in
let this would happen then somebody
will open the door up to that point
and you find your car is punctured.
Today the same thing happen, I started from My
house and the president was passing
through and every car was stopped.
Why do you plan everything, make it so timely
you see that you should be absolutely timely,
after all in living processes there is no time.
Supposing somebody ask Me how much time
will it take for a Kundalini to be awakened,
actually it only takes the split of the moment.
Split of the moment! Really! [Shadhn]!
Is less than a shadhn. Just a
wee piece of at time is needed.
And it shoots up and it just
breaks through in some people.
But in some people it comes up,
goes down, comes up, goes down,
in some people it takes time even to wake.
So under these circumstances
you cannot just say exactly
what time a – a flower is going to become a fruit,
can you say that?
Any living process you cannot time it.
Only dead things you can time it all right.
If I was supposing a dead person
and everybody was dead then there
would have been no problem of
My arriving here on a dead car
because nobody would have acted – objected
or there would have been no problem
but as human beings are living as
everything is living there can be a
problem in anyway no use planning for the future.
That is how we have faith in our planning.
God has all plans for us!
He has made all plans which
you can see within yourself.
Beautifully He has planned all this and
this time also He has planned very well.
The time has come!
This is the time of resurrection which was
announced by such a great rishi like Brigu
who was living thousands of years
back he wrote a book called Nadigranth
he has clearly stated about Sahaja Yoga what
will happen and how people will be cured
and how the Kundalini will be awakened.
Not only that but when about three hundred years
this was one gentleman called as Bujander, he,
he tried to bring it to the modern language
he said that this will start in 1970
exactly Sahaja Yoga started in 1970.
So it is all planned in God’s
own ways He has planned it and
in that planning we have to see how we fit in,
how many can be saved that is very important,
this is the time when we call
it the time of judgement.
The time of judgement has come, this is
the time you are all going to be judged.
Now many people will say that, “Mother we don’t
think this is the way we are going to be judged”,
if I ask them what is your
concept of your judgement?
I would say Michelangelo has done a
very great painting in Sistine Chapel
where you can see very clearly how
he has shown the whole Kundalini
and in Mahavishnu standing at Christ here,
throwing the people at Agnya
chakra on left and right,
they are coming down from left
and right and how those who are
saved are going above with the help of the Angels.
It is so clearly how he saw the vision
he was a great thrastha and he saw it.
Afterwards we can see in England, which is a
place you would not believe of Rishis or Munis
a great saint and a great poet who is not very
well know to us Indians called William Blake,
was born about a hundred years back and
he has written, so clearly, so clearly,
that it is amazing to see how these Saints knew
all these things so clearly
about Sahaja Yoga to come,
that even where I will be staying in Surrey Hills
first, first because responsibilities are here,
then the foundations will
be laid in Lambeth ville,
actually all these things were discovered
when the things have been done,
so the, our Ashram is in Lambeth
ville where we have put the
foundation and there it is written clearly
even the house that I am occupying now is
on the Tyburn Brook and is all
clearly written to the last word
where the such and such person
will be living, can you believe it.
And an Englishman saying that Jerusalem
the place where people should go
for their pilgrimage will be London
I been after knowing the English
as they have been it is impossible
for Indians to believe that a such a day will come
that Yogis will be settled in London but they are.
There are great Yogis in London today.
Now all these thing have happened to us.
God has organized everything.
God has managed everything.
Inside yourselves also He has
managed everything very well.
So beautifully that it is only
to be seen after Realization
how things are beautifully done within ourselves.
But is it the human ignorance
and freedom put together
because animals are pashus
there are impartial of God
but human beings with their freedom and
ignorance have created some mistakes,
doesn’t matter, doesn’t matter,
as long as you are seeking God,
you will get your Realization
you are beautifully made inside.
There is a beautiful picture which we will show
you tomorrow as to what the chakras there are
and how the Kundalini resting in
the triangular bone rises gradually
and passes through these chakras and
crosses over and breaks this Sahasrara.
It was said since long, because even
Indra was given Realization so you
can imagine how old is this
custom of giving Realization.
At the time of Janaka who was
the father in law of Shri Rama
it is mentioned that Nachiketha
got Realization, one person.
Now that time one person all right on the tree
of life there are few flowers at the beginning
but as the blossom time comes
there are so many flowers and
all these flowers are to become the fruits.
But if the flowers turn their face away from the
sun, you can’t help it because these
flowers are not like ordinary flowers.
They have freedom to choose either the
God’s Kingdom or the satanic Kingdom.
It is their choice and ardent desire to be in
the Kingdom of God which is going to work it out.
So it is left to us to decide
within our heart to know that
everything is done beautifully within yourselves.
We have three powers already
manifesting within us.
The first power as I told you yesterday when we
were doing the action of raising the Kundalini
is the left side power of desire.
Desire. But all of our desires
are weak root, are perverted,
because whatever desire we have does not
give you full satisfaction disaffection.
Now the principle of economics that once
in general is not they are not satiable,
in particular there for example
if I want to have a little house,
you will have the house but you are not satisfied
the house does not satisfy so will you want
to buy carpets so want buy the carpets,
then you try to furnish the house
still your are not satisfied,
now you want to have a car, and get a car,
then you want to start a factory,
still you are not satisfied,
means none of these things give
you satisfaction these material
things which you have changed from one to another.
So it is proved by economics itself that
material goals are not satiable in general
so why run after such a thing
which is never satiable like mad.
If it is said by economics itself
let us turn to something else,
and the else is nothing but, is sent,
the controlling power of all the natures,
and of all the beings within this
creation and that is God himself.
That God resides within us as
spirit so we have to turn to Him,
as I said we have to go to the roots
and know the knowledge of the roots
which is absolutely different,
absolutely different, from what knowledge
you have had so far, absolutely different
but you have to see for yourself with open mind.
So we have three powers, the left
side power is the power of desire,
and as I said all the desires that we know of are
weak rooted because they do not give
you the satisfaction of the desires.
So there has to be something shuddha
desire there has to be some pure desire
and what is this Kundalini, and this
Kundalini is the one which is waiting
for that day when as a Mother she
will give you your Realization.
She is your Mother, and she is the one
who has been with you all your lives
and she is the one who wants all the time
that My child should get the Realization
and now this Mother is an individual Mother
she has no other child, you are the only child.
She is very tender kind and extremely
knowledgeable she knows all about you
she knows all the mistakes you have committed
she knows that you have done wrong to yourself
but still she is so powerful that
she know that if she is awakened
she will throw away all other desires
and will come up and will make you
meet your ultimate own which is your spirit.
So we have the Shuddha Iccha. The
Shuddha Iccha is your Kundalini.
Now the other side we have another
power, which is the power of action.
This power of action we put into wrong thing.
Always our action lead us into troubles as
I told you about science you take any action
you take first of all you are not
sure as to what you are doing,
now take to the ultimate which we think
as the most noble thing human
being do, is to help others.
Now, this at least you would think,
“Why should Mother challenge?”
This action also comes to you out of
complete ignorance, complete ignorance.
I would say who is the other? Who is the other?
If you are the part and parcel
of the whole, who is the other?
Whom are you helping if this
finger is feeling the pain
and if I am trying to soothe
it am I obliging the finger?
Am I doing anything for the finger?
It comes out of ignorance and ego
that we are trying to help others,
actually you are helping yourself.
Perhaps also you are doing it to pamper your ego,
I have seen people who have got big
awards for being very helpful to the poor.
I have seen the temperament such hot
tempered horrid absolutely thin like sticks
horribly place about their own position.
Such people what good can they do even
their own personality is abhorrent
I mean people when they see such a person
are really frightened and are overawed,
what a matron this lady is as she is supposed
to be helping people in some
sort of a nonsensical thing.
Like somebody says you take hundred rupees,
I’ll give you hundred rupees I’ll help you.
All right you have helped the man
by a hundred rupees, Forget it!
What is a hundred rupees? Forget it!
Just you have not helped, just given it.
I would quote My father in this, because My father
was a another great Realized Soul
which we really, can be legendary,
I know that he was an extremely
generous man, extremely generous man
and he gave everything that he
had for the struggle of India.
But his generosity was so great that every Sunday
he used to distribute some
blankets and things like that
sitting outside in My house just passing over
like that and his head always bent like that.
So one day a friend a gentleman
said, “Sir, what are you dong?”
You are giving two blankets to one person, and
some people are running away with three blankets,
he said [sela] “I am not giving. If you
think I am giving you are sadly mistaken.
I am just an instrument I am sitting
here and I am just passing it.
Now if somebody wants to take more,
let the organizer see it, I have
nothing to do, I am just passing it.
That’s not my job. My job is just to stand
here and give it to people who want it.
I don’t see who is rich or poor, who
wants it or not, that is not my job.
That is the job of the organizer who wants
to do this. That kind of a thing it was.
So what is that you have give a hundred or a lakh
of rupees may be you might have
done it just for your names sake?
It has no value intrinsically of any punyas.
You have won no punyas at all.
The punyas are only won when you
just do it without looking at it.
But it is very difficult, very difficult,
only a realised soul can do it.
Who gives away without even
knowing he has given away.
Only a realised soul is like that.
You will be amazed that I don’t know how many
people I must have cured I have no idea at all.
But one day I was sitting next to a gentleman
in a dance like this and he touched My feet.
I said, “Who are you?”
He said, “Mother, don’t you
know you have saved your life.”
I said, “Saved your life! All
right forget it forget it.”
I said, “Sit down let’s see the dance.”
And I was trying to remember when did I
meet this fellow, I just could not remember.
“But”, I said,” You were never sick?” “How can
you be sick?” he said,” No I got my
Realization and now I am all right.”
His face was changed he was so transformed,
I just could not place him, I
could not understand who he was.
So you can imagine, what a change a
person can achieve through Realization,
and a person who is supposed
to be kind and obliging just
is flabbergasted and ashamed and embarrassed
that the kind of a memory one has
because you just don’t remember all this.
It is not important to be remembered.
It is not important at all
to remember these things,
and such a person has no value
for things that are so important.
I tell you can live much better if you don’t
worry about so many things that you have to do.
So with this right power of action we try to
do things which are really anti God activities.
First of all that we buy something
and we think, “This is mine.”
If you say anything is mine that means
it is not I as I told you yesterday,
but this feeling that this is mine,
this is my possession, this is my thing,
I must look after it, is absurd I just
don’t understand that you all know,
you have seen that everyone dies.
Anyone who does not know this, I
have not known anyone like that.
Now when you die, you don’t take anything with
you, this you have known also, or have you not.
No one takes anything.
What you take is the kindness, the
fragrance you have spread on this earth.
Even the people today who think I am
such and such, I am a king, I am this,
when they die people say, “Oh God,
thank God he died, horrible king.”
It is better that he died; we
prayed for his death thank God
he is gone and finished, he was good for nothing.
All these selfish things we do with the idea
that, by that people will have respect for us.
Somebody told Me that I accumulate money
because without money nobody has respect for us.
I said “Really!”
I did not know people respect
anyone for money’s sake
if they do you shouldn’t care for such
respect because money is outside you.
You leave the money tomorrow; supposing
you loose the money you loose the respect,
so why do you have such added mud on your
body of which people are giving you respect,
and such artificial respect, why
should you be so proud, “Throw away!”
People should respect you because you
are you not because you have money,
because you are today a big
man and tomorrow a small man.
But that you are you is your spirit.
The problem is unless and until you know
the spirit you may divulge or get in,
attached to possessions which are
attachments most artificial, most artificial
END OF SIDE A
Putting her finger on that
I hope it is not spoilt.
But we worry it should not be lost before
Mother disappears I must get hold of this ting
but I am just enjoying it without
possessing it I am enjoying it.
So what’s this of possessing, better give
the headache to someone and enjoy it,
other peoples things is the best.
Actually I do that, to be very frank, I do
not possess even a single thing in life.
I have told My husband please do not put
anything in My name because just I can’t possess.
I mean if you want to put it, put it
but I have no understanding of it.
And those who possess I know such headaches they
have of possession that they can never enjoy it,
they can never enjoy it, the
point is as soon as the idea
comes into your head that it’s a
possession you cannot enjoy it.
This thought itself is a disturbing thing
which takes you away from the
joy of that beautiful thing.
So what is the thing that you have to
see in matter is the joy of [esthetity].
First of all the joy of esthetity which we do not
at all think that aesthetics are
possible without possessing it.
We cannot think that anything can have aesthetics
until and unless and until you possess it.
You cannot enjoy the aesthetics
unless and until you possess it.
Thank God there are now museums, most of the
aesthetic things have gone into the museums
and headache is over for many, But still
people want to smuggle these things,
to buy these things, to possess these things,
to have such a big headache, what’s that need.
There is no need to waste your energy in
possessing things which are headaches,
if they are not headache it’s all right,
but we don’t possess them let them be there.
I tell you if you don’t worry
about it they will be there,
and they will give something more than
what is expected of material things.
[Tape cut for 2m 07 in?]
Of the material – a thing, the value of that,
is the joy of giving material things to others.
That’s the only thing I feel any matter has.
There is no other value in
things which we can possess,
so must be the value in giving
the headache to somebody else.
I tell you nothing like it. Try it!
Try to give away all the headache
to others and you will feel so
relieved you sleep standing while you are horse,
as you say, “Holy base to solve”!
In the same way, if you try to pay
attention to somebody because he is rich,
say he has diamonds or he has, I don’t know
some big car “Oh what a car it is this”,
England is very good for that.
If you wear real silver, real – real
pearls, they start call you Madam,
and if you wear artificial
ones, they just bark at you.
They know – all of them know, but
you see I am wearing it not you.
But when if you call me Madam or even the
Queen Elizabeth I am not going to give you.
So why should you call?
The whole system is so artificial and so stupid,
it’s so stupid that for a person like Me,
I just don’t understand why should
we waste our energy after people
who are not going to shell out even this much,
even if you give them the respect
for these possessions of theirs.
Once you start giving no respect for possessions,
those people who believe in
possessions will rise above
and will try to imbibe something higher.
I have had lots of – complains about people
taking bribes, making big money, this that,
having – this big thing, and all – for themselves.
Now the reason is, people are impressed by that!
People are only impressed by those
things so people try to acquire
whatever you are impressed by,
people try to do that.
I’ll give you a concrete example when
My husband got transferred in Bombay.
We were all simple ladies from all over, educated,
and we were all decently dressed Indian style,
we used to live in a very decent way,
good wives and all the way that we
had come from say good families.
So we tried to keep the corner of a family.
But then one lady came, and she was quite
– according to be a strange woman, you see,
and most surprising was the way she dressed.
Strangely and funnily all men
started getting impressed by her.
I mean this woman would not even look at them,
she would talk to them rudely
she was such a funny woman,
but all men were attracted to
her, something must be possessed.
I don’t know what was the reason,
but the ladies who were so good and
nice started changing just like that.
And they said if their husbands are interested in
such a particular type of a dress why not I do it,
and they all started changing themselves
so fast that suddenly I found
Myself surrounded by all this
and they thought I am a stupid woman.
The trouble is, unless and until you
the Sahaja Yogis of course you’ll do,
but the people who are not even Sahaj Yogis,
must know that after coming to Sahaj Yoga,
your priorities are so changed, that you do not
care for all other things which
are called to be positioned,
or big personalities, or you can call it – big
educated man, or some rich rajah and all that
but it cares for the Kundalini itself.
The Kundalini will judge you.
We have one very ordinary boy, who
is a poor boy, his name is Morisho.
Of course, by the help of Kundalini, of
course, your Lakshmi tattwa is improved,
so he has improved in his Lakshmi tattwa also.
But he is a very great Sahaj Yogi.
I mean he is really -very great soul, and he is
respected much more, than any big man coming,
because we understand the intrinsic value of
a person is how far he is a realisied soul.
So the whole system that we have built here,
which is responsible today for a
shock for us is going to change
,and all the priorities are going to
change, our idealism is going to come up
and we are going to look at people for their
intrinsic value and not for their outside value.
I don’t know how many of
you have met Mahatma Gandhi.
I’ve lived with him in My childhood, and
though he was a very dry person, extremely dry
and he made us like scouts you see, and he
took us to task because it’s so necessary,
but the thing I learnt from him was, that the way,
I mean he was particular on
correcting himself every moment,
and saying things which will correct yours.
This was the beauty of his leadership.
We had a program something in Molanazas
all of them when I was a little girl,
and we were giving water and this supplying
to them prank, and then Gandhiji said,
“Better not go for lunch,
you better have lunch here.”
They said, “All right, whatever
you say”, very obedient people.
So he got out he had the keys with him
because the bar, his wife, had gone out,
so he took out the keys, opened
the thing and took out, all rice,
wheat – what you call the atta, everything,
according to the people there were measured
them, put them, took about fifteen minutes.
When he came back to, everybody
was very embarrassed and –
I think it was Colonassad said “Bapu, we
did not know you had to go to this extent?”
Ah “for us I mean! It’s too much!”
“What too much! Do you know, this
is the blood of my countrymen”.
“I’m just a trustee. I cannot allow
even a drop of that blood to flow out.”
Can you imagine! That’s why he is a marvel.
He has detachment, was so
great that it impressed people
everybody was literally frightened
of him I had seen, except for Me,
because I was his favorite I think
and he used to call Me Nepali.
And when I told him one day, that ah
“Bapu you are very strict with everyone.”
“I can get up at four o’clock
because I used to get up.
I can do anything with My body it is very
good, but everybody is not like that,” he said,
“You are the old mother! I am not! I am
a father! I am going to put them right!”
And in a very strict way he also
used to treat children also,
but the best part of it is this, that his people
at that time when he created that atmosphere,
he created people without Realization I must say
with his own character with his own sublimity.
He created characted characters who
respected people because of their quality,
and not because of their falsehood.
But in Sahaj Yoga you don’t
have to give any lectures,
you don’t have to be strict like Gandhiji,
nothing has to be done.
You are just given awakening and it happens.
You are just a changed person, you
get that transformation automatically.
Nobody has to do anything about it; all your
actions become directed towards Sahaja Yoga.
Now when a Sahaja Yogi meets
Me, he is always talking to Me,
“Mother that day I saw such and such
thing and my Sahasrara opened out.
And then I went to a shop and what happened I
saw something and it emitted such vibrations,
that I felt tremendous love for that artist.”
The whole shop the whole system, the whole
thing changes and he talks like an, a, karmic,
because he does not do any karma the whole
thing flows, he becomes a third person.
He talks like a sakshi; he
talks like a third person.
He doesn’t say, “I have cured somebody.”
He says, “Sahaja Yoga has cured that person.”
So he becomes separated from Sahaja Yoga,
he is not Sahaj Yoga is the sense
that Sahaja Yoga is doing its job
I, the one, the ego is separate.
The Sahaja Yoga is doing this.
Sahaja Yoga has worked out this way.
Sahaja Yoga where does it exist.
It exist it in the Sahaja Yogis. In the hearts
of Sahaja Yogis, in the hands of Sahaj Yogis,
in their Kundalini, it exists
within them, in their spirits,
and from that spirit the
Sahaj Yoga is working out.
So when they say that Sahaja Yoga is
working it out, they are actually saying,
the spirit is working out, a spirit
is detached, so they never say,
“I have done so, I have arranged. Mother,
Sahaja is so great that as soon as we
went there the Sahaja worked it out.”
Now where is this Sahaja standing outside?
It is within your heart this Atma works it out.
After Realization you become really dynamic,
believe Me you become absolutely dynamic.
So far we have never known God’s real miracles,
His real way of dealing with human beings.
Some Sahaj Yogis who cannot receive the message
that I have come dream about it in the night.
Because they are collectively conscious,
not only when the Realization comes through
they can feel your chakras on their fingers they
can feel it – properly what chakras are catching,
where is the problem, they decode it and cure
it in collective consciousness
which is an actualisation in,
is an actualisation it is not a mental thing, that
we are our brothers and sisters. Nobody is other.
They can feel what is wrong with others,
they can know what is wrong with them
because the light has come within them, and
when that happens, then, you cannot help it.
You see, sometimes I am late for a program,
so people say Mother why are you late.
Now somebody I see who is a great person who
has come to Me may be poor or rich I don’t know,
but he deserves attention, so My attention
starts going towards him like water,
it till he settle down, it goes on working.
And when it works out, when it works
out, then only I leave the place.
Time, everything is for whom, for us,
not for use to be slaves of time
but we have to master the time.
Even in Sahaja Yoga there are so many
ways we can see how we master the time.
Like one day we were going to have a
Puja at about ten o’clock in the morning,
but I could not take My bath till eleven,
and everybody said, “Mother better go
for a bath now it’s eleven o’clock.”
I said, “Still the time till then.” At eleven
o’clock I went for a bath and
arrive at about twelve o’clock.
So I said please open the
panchang [moon calendar] see
when amavasya [new moon] finishes
they said at twelve, all right.
So I am here at the right time, during
Amavasya you do not do any puja.
So the whole planning, the whole system
of all telecommunication everything,
of the Brahma you achieve it
and you master it and you know how
to handle it, Sitting down here,
you can know the vibrations of the
president of America, sitting down here,
you can communicate with a friend of
yours who is across thousand of miles.
But this is not so important, what you can
do is the communication of Sahaja system
through this all pervading ether that is there,
so that you can work out so many things that,
it cannot be explained on
the ordinary human level.
Now I will tell you one of
them which you cannot explain,
and I cannot explain to you because
of difference in our understanding.
I was giving a lecture in Bedford to at least
double the number of people that are here,
and when I was talking to
them about eight o’clock,
or so, the lecture finished about ten o’clock,
a boy fell down about three four miles
away, from that place, from a bridge.
Fell very deep, and people saw him falling
down so they sent for a ambulance which came,
but this boy when they lifted him up, took him
to the hospital, found was all hale and heart.
So they asked him what happened.
Nothing happened to you nothing
broken, nothing hurt, what’s the problem.
He said, “A lady wearing a white sari, came
down from a white car,” I have a white car,
“and touched me all over the places
I was hurt and I got cured by her
and she a little place she has left and
she told me that you come for this to me.
And then she went away and
afterwards the ambulance came.”
When he saw My photograph
after two days, he told this,
because this was out in the newspapers,
first of all this was given in the news
that something miraculous has happened ,
this man has seen a lady, who is
this lady? After two days, this,
they thought is was still some
actual lady who must have come there.
He saw My photograph in the newspaper and
he said.” This is the lady who had come.”
So the gentleman was quite worried and
he telephoned to the organiser Mr
Gavin Brown, to find out about Me.
So Gavin Brown wrote an article, say – he said yes
it is so Havia word many such cases in India also
but to, to us to Indians we are more
modern in this, we don’t believe,
but it has happened here also,
so he wrote a complete article as to
what things have happened in India also
and they published it and they were amazed.
So you can imagine what things
God can do and how He helps you,
and why should you worry about anything when
He is the one who is going to protect you
look after you and do everything
under the sun to make you happy.
This belief in God is now vanishing in the
thin air, but believe Me that
once you get your Realization
all His angels and Ganas are
looking [after you after you.]
Ah, anybody who tries to trouble
the Sahaja Yogis, have a bad time,
and now the Sahaj Yogis have to hold Me,
“Mother please forgive them because
they have so much of bad time
that we ourselves will, that
it is too much.” I said,
“Well I am not doing anything these are the Ganas.
They won’t spare these people now
any more if they try to trouble
you because no more anybody is
going to trouble the Saints;
they have done it with too much of it now the
time has come where no Saint can be troubled.”
Of course all the people who are fake. who
are anti God people they’ll be destroyed
and their images will be ruined but no Saint who
so ever he me be can be harassed by any bad power,
all of them will be punished severely and this
can be proved by many experiences of the
SahajaYogis who will tell you about it,
so all the protection is there.
So many incidences that we
are thinking of publishing
a regular book of the incidents that took place
and you all can verify if you
are rather doubtful about it.
This is the blessing of getting Sahaja Yoga on
the right hand side when you believe in God.
He does everything actually He does everything
as I told you that all living things has does.
But in our ignorance we feel that we are doing it.
As I told many a time that some
villagers were asked to go by plane
and they felt that if they have to take
less luggage better put it on their heads.
So they put all their luggage on
their heads and they were believing
that they are reducing the weight of the aeroplane
in the same way we believe that we are
reducing the weight that God has to carry.
It is He who has created you, it
is He who has made you human being,
it is He who has to give you Realization,
it is He who has to give the joy
and it is He who has to give you the
citizenship of His great Kingdom.
Is all a desire of a Father, who
loves, loves and loves his children.
He adores his children, he adores creation
and that’s what he has tried to create,
an atmosphere today where people
will have to take to Sahaj Yoga
if they are not little bit frightened
they won’t come to Sahaja Yoga
so don’t be worried all these are just a fake
frightening things they will all disappear.
There is nothing to worry about it, as you
call in Hindi language a bandar bhakti hai.
We just don’t worry, this is
just a fake warning for all
the people so that they can come to Sahaj Yoga,
get their Realization and
settle down with in accessory.
Now! Yesterday I was little on a very serious
mood and I warned you all people of Delhi,
because what I find that Delhi
is the weakest centre we have.
The weakest of all.
Ah people come to Sahaja Yoga just for treatment,
and even if they come for Sahaja Yoga
they just come and take it very easy
as if they have been to some – one of the
groups or ashrams or things like that.
Sahaj Yoga is a person, is a, is
a thing for very serious workers.
It’s not meant for useless,
horrible unstable peoples,
and I don’t think that in Delhi you have
many people who are really steady to do it,
I have en experience like that.
I have tried everything, I have been
coming here for last eleven years
but the amount of great people I have
got in the villages of Maharashtra,
or in Bombay, or in Puna, or in Sulapur
and Kolapur and all that I tell you,
the, this is not even one hundredth of
that, that we could achieve in Delhi.
Of some of the Sahaj Yogis
are very great, but very few,
and the rest often are just absolutely
mediocre do not take it up seriously
that this is the only way
you can solve the problems,
of this country and of the whole universe.
For us, the Western ideas are very enamouring,
especially, I don’t know why in Delhi.
And this kind of behaviour is leading them to
frivolous understanding of their own being.
The whole thing is that Delhi is the
Dehlich of God’s kingdom or of hell.
It is for you to decide now what you want to
create, hell for your children or Heaven for them.
It is a very sad thing that Delhi
people of course come in thousands.
In one of My lectures we had such a big
crowd that I could not get out of this place,
but it was just a crowd, a mob, it
had nothing, no quality of any kind,
I was amazed that all the muck of the
world has gathered in this Delhi crowd.
It was so shocking that they
are not bothered at all,
they talk big about politics, they talk
this is happening, that is happening,
but how many of them really take up
seriously that there is a solution,
and let us all take to the roots, let us
cure ourselves it’s our responsibilities.
Tomorrow, the residents of Delhi
will be blamed the most of all.
Sometimes I feel like
cancelling all the, North India,
because this is the Dehlich of North India and
if this is the case of the people
living on threshold of the North,
what is going to happen to the
rest of it, God only knows.
So I today I’m again warning you
as I warned you again, yesterday,
that we have so many beautiful projects,
are starting in the Maharashtra area,
you can come and see for yourself with
your own eyes, which is so tremendous.
Even the scientist then so many
philosophers, doctors, they have approached,
I have visited, of course all your institutions
not that I have refused to do that,
I have also spoken, to the – Doctors
– association, in this your institute,
but what they came out was so funny that they have
you got a file on how many people you have cured.
Imagine, I told them, do
you understand this is Love,
and you don’t get, keep files of Love.
First of all you become realised,
why do you ask Me such a question,
am I asking any money, what
is there to doubt Me so much?
You are asking Me as if I am a criminal.
If you want to have Realization, please
have your Realization, and help your people.
So, I have to tell you that be careful.
The beginning and the end is going
to start from this particular Delhi,
and that’s why this name is given to this
so the people, who are on this borderline,
must know that you have to come up.
You have to come up to the expectation of God,
who has brought such great
things for you on this earth.
Who has created this Mahayoga first?
Please remember that you will be held responsible
later on and you should not reject it.
I hope you will make it a point tomorrow to come.
As a mother I can only request you from My
heart that My children try to be chivalrous,
great as so many have been in this
country and stand up to it, and get to it.
Know it is you who are the foundation
of this great work, of God’s work,
so spare no effort to get to this
great tremendous blissful work of God.
I am always at your disposal.
Those who have come to Me have gained in help.
Today I say a lady, you wont believe that
woman was nothing in bone when I had seen her,
when I saw her, how she has changed,
and she is such a Sahaja Yogini today.
She said, “Mother now I have got a
new birth now forgotten my religion,
I have forgotten so called religion, I
have forgotten my country everything.
I’m beyond it. Use me whatever way you like.”
And the whole ideology is in all that are so
beautifully changed and such
a love giving thing it is.
So I have to again humbly
request you to understand
that the Ganges is flowing at your lotus feet
just take a dip and know that your Ghagar your
pitcher has to be empty to fill it the Ganges.
Thank you very much!
Applause
Tomorrow I will be telling you about the chakras
and now we can have a little session
of Realization for about ten minutes
and tomorrow again we will have another session.
So far nobody has given any questions to Me
so I would expect you to give Me questions
this evening so I will answer them tomorrow.
Just put the chair there.